Add Migration from helm chart to operator (#5697)
mattermost/docs: source/install/mattermost-kubernetes-operator.rst

  The deployment process can be monitored in the Kubernetes user interface. If errors or issues are experienced, review the Mattermost, Operator, and MySQL logs for guidance including error messages. If remediation is not successful, contact Mattermost customer support for assistance.

  Once complete, access your Mattermost instance and confirm that the database has been restored.
Migrate From Helm Chart
--------------------------------------------

If you have previosuly installed mattermost as helm chart deployment, you can easily move to an operator installed following the provided steps

1. Create a namespace dedicated fo the operator

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl create ns mattermost-operator

> 2. Save the secrets from the current installation , if you have extra secrets mounted as a volume save them as well
> 
> .. code-block:: sh
> 
>   $ kubectl get secrets -n mattermost mattermost-db-secret -o yaml > mattermost-db-secret.yaml

Reviewer: To make it easier to follow, we could export namespace as env var:

```suggestion
2. Save the secrets from the current installation, if you have extra secrets mounted as a volume save them as well. To begin, set ```NAMESPACE``` environment variable to the namespace your Mattermost instance is running in:

.. code-block:: sh
  $ export NAMESPACE=mattermost
  $ kubectl get secrets -n $NAMESPACE mattermost-db-secret -o yaml > mattermost-db-secret.yaml
```
We would need to also adjust other commands.

  $ kubectl get secrets -n mattermost mattermost-license-secret -o yaml > mattermost-license-secret.yaml

>   $ kubectl get secrets -n cert -o yaml > cert.yaml

Reviewer: We are missing the secret name here, I assume it should be:
```suggestion
  $ kubectl get secrets -n mattermost cert -o yaml > cert.yaml
```

3. Change the db secret to match operator, the helm used mattermost.dbsecret while the operator uses DB_CONNECTION_STRING

.. code-block:: sh

  $ vim mattermost-db-secret.yaml

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: mattermost-db-secret
  data:

>     DB_CONNECTION_STRING: "db_connection_string"

Reviewer: I would suggest calling out explicitly the params that need to be customized, to avoid confusion:
```suggestion
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING: [YOUR_CONNECTION_STRING]
```

4. Create S3 Secret, mattermost operator uses secret while helm uses environment variables

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  metadata:
    name: s3-secret
  kind: Secret
  stringData:

>     accesskey: accesskey
>     secretkey: secretkey

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    accesskey: [S3_ACCESS_KEY]
    secretkey: [S3_ACCESS_KEY]
```

> 5. Scale the current installation to 0 and create the operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Scale the current installation to 0 and deploy the operator
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl apply -n mattermost-operator -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator/master/docs/mattermost-operator/mattermost-operator.yaml
  $ kubectl scale deployment -n mattermost mattermost-deployment --replicas=0

6. Apply the new secrets in the new namespace 

.. code-block:: sh

>   $ kubectl apply -f mattermost-db-secret.yaml -n mattermost-operator 
>   $ kubectl apply -f mattermost mattermost-license-secret.yaml -n mattermost-operator
>   $ kubectl apply -f cert.yaml -n mattermost-operator
>   $ kubectl apply -f s3-secret -n mattermost-operator

Reviewer: I would not use `mattermost-operator` namespace in the example as it may lead the reader to think it is necessary to use this namespace.

```suggestion
  $ kubectl apply -f mattermost-db-secret.yaml -n $NEW_NAMESPACE 
  $ kubectl apply -f mattermost mattermost-license-secret.yaml -n $NEW_NAMESPACE
  $ kubectl apply -f cert.yaml -n $NEW_NAMESPACE
  $ kubectl apply -f s3-secret -n $NEW_NAMESPACE
```

> 7. Create a mattermost installation according to the secrets imported and exported to the new ns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Create a Mattermost installation in the same namespace as new secrets.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: installation.mattermost.com/v1beta1
  kind: Mattermost
  metadata:
    name: mm-example
  spec:
    image: mattermost/mattermost-enterprise-edition
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    version: 6.0.0
    size: 5000users
    ingress:
      enabled: true
      host: example.mattermost-example.com

>       tlsSecret: "my-tls"
>     licenseSecret: "license-secret"
>     database:
>       external:
>         secret: db-secret
>     fileStore:
>       external:
>         url: s3.amazonaws.com
>         bucket: my-s3-bucket
>         secret: s3-secret

Reviewer: Given that we show how to import secrets, we should stick to the same names, as they need to match for Mattermost to work:

```suggestion
      tlsSecret: "cert"
    licenseSecret: "mattermost-db-secret"
    database:
      external:
        secret: "mattermost-db-secret"
    fileStore:
      external:
        url: s3.amazonaws.com
        bucket: my-s3-bucket
        secret: s3-secret
```

    elasticSearch: {}
    volumeMounts:
    - name: certificates
      mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/mycert.pem
      subPath: mycert.pem
    volumes:
    - name: certificates
      secret:
        defaultMode: 420
        secretName: cert

> Save the file as mattermost-installation.yaml. While recommended file names are provided, your naming conventions may differ.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Align the manifest to your needs and save the file as mattermost-installation.yaml. For more detailed documentation of different fields, `check out example <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator/blob/master/docs/examples/mattermost_full.yaml>`__.
 While recommended file names are provided, your naming conventions may differ.
```

8. Apply the new manifest in the relavent namespace 

.. code-block:: sh

>   $ kubectl apply -n mattermost -f mattermost-installation.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl apply -n $NEW_NAMESPACE -f mattermost-installation.yaml
```

The deployment process can be monitored in the Kubernetes user interface or in command line by running:

.. code-block:: sh

>   $ kubectl -n mattermost get mm -w

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  $ kubectl -n $NEW_NAMESPACE get mm -w
```

The installation should be deployed successfully, when the Custom Resource reaches the stable state.

> 9. Configure DNS and use Mattermost.

Reviewer: This step is the same as regular installation, perhaps we could link to it? Not sure it is possible within the `rst` file.

  When the deployment is complete, obtain the hostname or IP address of your Mattermost deployment using the following command:

  .. code-block:: sh

    $ kubectl -n mattermost-operator get ingress

  Copy the resulting hostname or IP address from the ``ADDRESS`` column, open your browser, and connect to Mattermost.

  Use your domain registration service to create a canonical name or IP address record for the ``ingress.host`` in your manifest, pointing to the address you just copied. For example, on AWS you would do this within a hosted zone in Route53.

  Navigate to the ``ingress.host`` URL in your browser and use Mattermost.

  If you just want to try it out on your local machine without configuring the domain, run:

  .. code-block:: sh

>     $ kubectl -n mattermost-operator port-forward svc/[YOUR_MATTERMOST_NAME] 8065:8065

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ kubectl -n $NEW_NAMESPACE port-forward svc/[YOUR_MATTERMOST_NAME] 8065:8065
```

  Once complete, access your Mattermost instance and confirm that the database has been restored.

Migrate From Helm Chart

> --------------------------------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--------------------------
```

> If you have previosuly installed mattermost as helm chart deployment, you can easily move to an operator installed following the provided steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've installed Mattermost as helm chart deployment, you can easily move to an operator-installed deployment by following the steps below.
```

> 1. Create a namespace dedicated fo the operator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a namespace dedicated to the operator.
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl create ns mattermost-operator

> 2. Save the secrets from the current installation, if you have extra secrets mounted as a volume save them as well. To begin, set ```NAMESPACE``` environment variable to the namespace your Mattermost instance is running in:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Save the secrets from the current installation. If you have extra secrets mounted as a volume, save them as well. To begin, set the ``NAMESPACE`` environment variable to the namespace your Mattermost instance is running in:
```

.. code-block:: sh
  $ export NAMESPACE=mattermost
  $ kubectl get secrets -n $NAMESPACE mattermost-db-secret -o yaml > mattermost-db-secret.yaml
  $ kubectl get secrets -n $NAMESPACE mattermost-license-secret -o yaml > mattermost-license-secret.yaml
  $ kubectl get secrets -n $NAMESPACE cert -o yaml > cert.yaml

> 3. Change the db secret to match operator, the helm used mattermost.dbsecret while the operator uses DB_CONNECTION_STRING

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Change the database secret to match the operator. The helm installation used ``mattermost.dbsecret`` while the operator uses ``DB_CONNECTION_STRING``.
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ vim mattermost-db-secret.yaml

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  kind: Secret
  metadata:
    name: mattermost-db-secret
  data:
    DB_CONNECTION_STRING: [YOUR_CONNECTION_STRING]

> 4. Create S3 Secret, mattermost operator uses secret while helm uses environment variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Create an S3 Secret. Mattermost operator uses ``secret`` while helm uses environment variables.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: v1
  metadata:
    name: s3-secret
  kind: Secret
  stringData:
    accesskey: [S3_ACCESS_KEY]
    secretkey: [S3_ACCESS_KEY]

> 5. Scale the current installation to 0 and deploy the operator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Scale the current installation to 0 and deploy the operator.
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl apply -n mattermost-operator -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator/master/docs/mattermost-operator/mattermost-operator.yaml
  $ kubectl scale deployment -n $NAMESPACE mattermost-deployment --replicas=0

> 6. Apply the new secrets in the new namespace 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Apply the new secrets in the new namespace.
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl apply -f mattermost-db-secret.yaml -n $NEW_NAMESPACE 
  $ kubectl apply -f mattermost-license-secret.yaml -n $NEW_NAMESPACE
  $ kubectl apply -f cert.yaml -n $NEW_NAMESPACE
  $ kubectl apply -f s3-secret -n $NEW_NAMESPACE

> 7. Create a Mattermost installation in the same namespace as new secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Create a Mattermost installation in the same namespace as the new secrets.
```

.. code-block:: yaml

  apiVersion: installation.mattermost.com/v1beta1
  kind: Mattermost
  metadata:
    name: mm-example
  spec:
    image: mattermost/mattermost-enterprise-edition
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    version: 6.0.0
    size: 5000users
    ingress:
      enabled: true
      host: example.mattermost-example.com
      tlsSecret: "cert"
    licenseSecret: "mattermost-db-secret"
    database:
      external:
        secret: "mattermost-db-secret"
    fileStore:
      external:
        url: s3.amazonaws.com
        bucket: my-s3-bucket
        secret: s3-secret
    elasticSearch: {}
    volumeMounts:
    - name: certificates
      mountPath: /etc/ssl/certs/mycert.pem
      subPath: mycert.pem
    volumes:
    - name: certificates
      secret:
        defaultMode: 420
        secretName: cert

> Align the manifest to your needs and save the file as mattermost-installation.yaml. For more detailed documentation of different fields, `check out example <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator/blob/master/docs/examples/mattermost_full.yaml>`__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Align the manifest to your needs, then save the file as ``mattermost-installation.yaml``. See the `documentation <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator/blob/master/docs/examples/mattermost_full.yaml>`__ for details about supported fields.
```

>  While recommended file names are provided, your naming conventions may differ.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 While recommended filenames are provided, your naming conventions may differ.
```

> 8. Apply the new manifest in the relavent namespace 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Apply the new manifest in the relevant namespace.
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl apply -n $NEW_NAMESPACE -f mattermost-installation.yaml

> The deployment process can be monitored in the Kubernetes user interface or in command line by running:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deployment process can be monitored in the Kubernetes user interface or using the command line by running:
```

.. code-block:: sh

  $ kubectl -n $NEW_NAMESPACE get mm -w

> The installation should be deployed successfully, when the Custom Resource reaches the stable state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The installation should be deployed successfully when the Custom Resource reaches a stable state.
```

9. Configure DNS and use Mattermost.

  When the deployment is complete, obtain the hostname or IP address of your Mattermost deployment using the following command:

  .. code-block:: sh

    $ kubectl -n $NEW_NAMESPACE get ingress

  Copy the resulting hostname or IP address from the ``ADDRESS`` column, open your browser, and connect to Mattermost.

  Use your domain registration service to create a canonical name or IP address record for the ``ingress.host`` in your manifest, pointing to the address you just copied. For example, on AWS you would do this within a hosted zone in Route53.

  Navigate to the ``ingress.host`` URL in your browser and use Mattermost.

  If you just want to try it out on your local machine without configuring the domain, run:

  .. code-block:: sh

    $ kubectl -n $NEW_NAMESPACE port-forward svc/[YOUR_MATTERMOST_NAME] 8065:8065

>   Then navigate to http://localhost:8065.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Then navigate to ``http://localhost:8065``.
```
